In order to guarantee the safety of payload, crew, and structures, ships must
exhibit good seakeeping, maneuverability, and structural-response performance,
also when they operate in adverse weather conditions. In this context, the
availability of forecasting methods to be included within model-predictive
control approaches may represent a decisive factor. Here, a data-driven and
equation-free modeling approach for forecasting of trajectories, motions, and
forces of ships in waves is presented, based on dynamic mode decomposition
(DMD). DMD is a data-driven modeling method, which provides a linear
finite-dimensional representation of a possibly nonlinear system dynamics by
means of a set of modes with associated frequencies. Its use for ship operating
in waves has been little discussed and a systematic analysis of its forecasting
capabilities is still needed in this context. Here, a statistical analysis of
DMD forecasting capabilities is presented for ships in waves, including
standard and augmented DMD. The statistical assessment uses multiple time
series, studying the effects of the number of input/output waves, time steps,
time derivatives, along with the use of time-shifted copies of time series by
the Hankel matrix. The assessment of the forecasting capabilities is based on
four metrics: normalized root mean square error, Pearson correlation
coefficient, average angle measure, and normalized average minimum/maximum
absolute error. Two test cases are used for the assessment: the course keeping
of a self-propelled 5415M in irregular stern-quartering waves and the
turning-circle of a free-running self-propelled KRISO Container Ship in regular
waves. Results are overall promising and show how state augmentation (using
from four to eight input waves, up to two time derivatives, and four
time-shifted copies) improves the DMD forecasting capabilities up to two wave
encounter periods in ...