Deep neural networks have recently been recognized as one of the powerful
learning techniques in computer vision and medical image analysis. Trained deep
neural networks need to be generalizable to new data that was not seen before.
In practice, there is often insufficient training data available and
augmentation is used to expand the dataset. Even though graph convolutional
neural network (graph-CNN) has been widely used in deep learning, there is a
lack of augmentation methods to generate data on graphs or surfaces. This study
proposes two unbiased augmentation methods, Laplace-Beltrami eigenfunction Data
Augmentation (LB-eigDA) and Chebyshev polynomial Data Augmentation (C-pDA), to
generate new data on surfaces, whose mean is the same as that of real data.
LB-eigDA augments data via the resampling of the LB coefficients. In parallel
with LB-eigDA, we introduce a fast augmentation approach, C-pDA, that employs a
polynomial approximation of LB spectral filters on surfaces. We design LB
spectral bandpass filters by Chebyshev polynomial approximation and resample
signals filtered via these filters to generate new data on surfaces. We first
validate LB-eigDA and C-pDA via simulated data and demonstrate their use for
improving classification accuracy. We then employ the brain images of
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and extract cortical
thickness that is represented on the cortical surface to illustrate the use of
the two augmentation methods. We demonstrate that augmented cortical thickness
has a similar pattern to real data. Second, we show that C-pDA is much faster
than LB-eigDA. Last, we show that C-pDA can improve the AD classification
accuracy of graph-CNN.