Augmented reality technology is one of the leading technologies in the
context of Industry 4.0. The promising potential application of augmented
reality in industrial production systems has received much attention, which led
to the concept of industrial augmented reality. On the one hand, this
technology provides a suitable platform that facilitates the registration of
information and access to them to help make decisions and allows concurrent
training for the user while executing the production processes. This leads to
increased work speed and accuracy of the user as a process operator and
consequently offers economic benefits to the companies. Moreover, recent
advances in the internet of things, smart sensors, and advanced algorithms have
increased the possibility of widespread and more effective use of augmented
reality. Currently, many research pieces are being done to expand the
application of augmented reality and increase its effectiveness in industrial
production processes. This research demonstrates the influence of augmented
reality in Industry 4.0 while critically reviewing the industrial augmented
reality history. Afterward, the paper discusses the critical role of industrial
augmented reality by analyzing some use cases and their prospects. With a
systematic analysis, this paper discusses the main future directions for
industrial augmented reality applications in industry 4.0. The article
investigates various areas of application for this technology and its impact on
improving production conditions. Finally, the challenges that this technology
faces and its research opportunities are discussed.