Deep clustering has attracted increasing attention in recent years due to its
capability of joint representation learning and clustering via deep neural
networks. In its latest developments, the contrastive learning has emerged as
an effective technique to substantially enhance the deep clustering
performance. However, the existing contrastive learning based deep clustering
algorithms mostly focus on some carefully-designed augmentations (often with
limited transformations to preserve the structure), referred to as weak
augmentations, but cannot go beyond the weak augmentations to explore the more
opportunities in stronger augmentations (with more aggressive transformations
or even severe distortions). In this paper, we present an end-to-end deep
clustering approach termed Strongly Augmented Contrastive Clustering (SACC),
which extends the conventional two-augmentation-view paradigm to multiple views
and jointly leverages strong and weak augmentations for strengthened deep
clustering. Particularly, we utilize a backbone network with triply-shared
weights, where a strongly augmented view and two weakly augmented views are
incorporated. Based on the representations produced by the backbone, the
weak-weak view pair and the strong-weak view pairs are simultaneously exploited
for the instance-level contrastive learning (via an instance projector) and the
cluster-level contrastive learning (via a cluster projector), which, together
with the backbone, can be jointly optimized in a purely unsupervised manner.
Experimental results on five challenging image datasets have shown the
superiority of our SACC approach over the state-of-the-art. The code is
available at https://github.com/dengxiaozhi/SACC.