A dynamical picture of phylogenetic evolution is given in terms of Markov
models on a state space, comprising joint probability distributions for
character types of taxonomic classes. Phylogenetic branching is a process which
augments the number of taxa under consideration, and hence the rank of the
underlying joint probability state tensor. We point out the combinatorial
necessity for a second-quantised, or Fock space setting, incorporating discrete
counting labels for taxa and character types, to allow for a description in the
number basis. Rate operators describing both time evolution without branching,
and also phylogenetic branching events, are identified. A detailed development
of these ideas is given, using standard transcriptions from the microscopic
formulation of nonequilibrium reaction-diffusion or birth-death processes.
These give the relations between stochastic rate matrices, the matrix elements
of the corresponding evolution operators representing them, and the integral
kernels needed to implement these as path integrals. The `free' theory (without
branching) is solved, and the correct trilinear `interaction' terms
(representing branching events) are presented. The full model is developed in
perturbation theory via the derivation of explicit Feynman rules which
establish that the probabilities (pattern frequencies of leaf colourations)
arising as matrix elements of the time evolution operator are identical with
those computed via the standard analysis. Simple examples (phylogenetic trees
with 2 or 3 leaves), are discussed in detail. Further implications for the work
are briefly considered including the role of time reparametrisation covariance.