Ecological imbalance owing to rapid urbanization and deforestation has
adversely affected the population of several wild animals. This loss of habitat
has skewed the population of several non-human primate species like chimpanzees
and macaques and has constrained them to co-exist in close proximity of human
settlements, often leading to human-wildlife conflicts while competing for
resources. For effective wildlife conservation and conflict management, regular
monitoring of population and of conflicted regions is necessary. However,
existing approaches like field visits for data collection and manual analysis
by experts is resource intensive, tedious and time consuming, thus
necessitating an automated, non-invasive, more efficient alternative like image
based facial recognition. The challenge in individual identification arises due
to unrelated factors like pose, lighting variations and occlusions due to the
uncontrolled environments, that is further exacerbated by limited training
data. Inspired by human perception, we propose to learn representations that
are robust to such nuisance factors and capture the notion of similarity over
the individual identity sub-manifolds. The proposed approach, Primate Face
Identification (PFID), achieves this by training the network to distinguish
between positive and negative pairs of images. The PFID loss augments the
standard cross entropy loss with a pairwise loss to learn more discriminative
and generalizable features, thus making it appropriate for other related
identification tasks like open-set, closed set and verification. We report
state-of-the-art accuracy on facial recognition of two primate species, rhesus
macaques and chimpanzees under the four protocols of classification,
verification, closed-set identification and open-set recognition.