Result relevance prediction is an essential task of e-commerce search engines
to boost the utility of search engines and ensure smooth user experience. The
last few years eyewitnessed a flurry of research on the use of
Transformer-style models and deep text-match models to improve relevance.
However, these two types of models ignored the inherent bipartite network
structures that are ubiquitous in e-commerce search logs, making these models
ineffective. We propose in this paper a novel Second-order Relevance, which is
fundamentally different from the previous First-order Relevance, to improve
result relevance prediction. We design, for the first time, an end-to-end
First-and-Second-order Relevance prediction model for e-commerce item
relevance. The model is augmented by the neighborhood structures of bipartite
networks that are built using the information of user behavioral feedback,
including clicks and purchases. To ensure that edges accurately encode
relevance information, we introduce external knowledge generated from BERT to
refine the network of user behaviors. This allows the new model to integrate
information from neighboring items and queries, which are highly relevant to
the focus query-item pair under consideration. Results of offline experiments
showed that the new model significantly improved the prediction accuracy in
terms of human relevance judgment. An ablation study showed that the
First-and-Second-order model gained a 4.3% average gain over the First-order
model. Results of an online A/B test revealed that the new model derived more
commercial benefits compared to the base model.