GitHub hosts millions of software repositories, facilitating developers to
contribute to many projects in multiple ways. Most of the information about the
repositories is text-based in the form of stars, forks, commits, and so on.
However, developers willing to contribute to projects on GitHub often find it
challenging to select appropriate projects to contribute to or reuse due to the
large number of repositories present on GitHub. Further, obtaining this
required information often becomes a tedious process, as one has to carefully
mine information hidden inside the repository. To alleviate the effort
intensive mining procedures, researchers have proposed npm-badges to outline
information relating to build status of a project. However, these badges are
static and limit their usage to package dependency and build details. Adding
visual cues such as badges to the repositories might reduce the search space
for developers. Hence, we present GitQ, to automatically augment GitHub
repositories with badges representing information about source code and project
maintenance. Presenting GitQ as a browser plugin to GitHub could make it easily
accessible to developers using GitHub. GitQ is evaluated with 15 developers
based on the UTAUT model to understand developer perception towards its
usefulness. We observed that 11 out of 15 developers perceived GitQ to be
useful in identifying the right set of repositories using visual cues such as
generated by GitQ. The source code and tool are available for download on
GitHub at https://github.com/gitq-for-github/plugin, and the demo can be found
at https://youtu.be/c0yohmIat3A.