The increasing population of elderly people is associated with the need to
meet their increasing requirements and to provide solutions that can improve
their quality of life in a smart home. In addition to fear and anxiety towards
interfacing with systems; cognitive disabilities, weakened memory, disorganized
behavior and even physical limitations are some of the problems that elderly
people tend to face with increasing age. The essence of providing
technology-based solutions to address these needs of elderly people and to
create smart and assisted living spaces for the elderly; lies in developing
systems that can adapt by addressing their diversity and can augment their
performances in the context of their day to day goals. Therefore, this work
proposes a framework for development of a Personalized Intelligent Assistant to
help elderly people perform Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) in a smart and
connected Internet of Things (IoT) based environment. This Personalized
Intelligent Assistant can analyze different tasks performed by the user and
recommend activities by considering their daily routine, current affective
state and the underlining user experience. To uphold the efficacy of this
proposed framework, it has been tested on a couple of datasets for modelling an
average user and a specific user respectively. The results presented show that
the model achieves a performance accuracy of 73.12% when modelling a specific
user, which is considerably higher than its performance while modelling an
average user, this upholds the relevance for development and implementation of
this proposed framework.