With the growing popularity of robotic surgery, education becomes
increasingly important and urgently needed for the sake of patient safety.
However, experienced surgeons have limited accessibility due to their busy
clinical schedule or working in a distant city, thus can hardly provide
sufficient education resources for novices. Remote mentoring, as an effective
way, can help solve this problem, but traditional methods are limited to plain
text, audio, or 2D video, which are not intuitive nor vivid. Augmented reality
(AR), a thriving technique being widely used for various education scenarios,
is promising to offer new possibilities of visual experience and interactive
teaching. In this paper, we propose a novel AR-based robotic surgery remote
mentoring system with efficient 3D scene visualization and natural 3D hand
interaction. Using a head-mounted display (i.e., HoloLens), the mentor can
remotely monitor the procedure streamed from the trainee's operation side. The
mentor can also provide feedback directly with hand gestures, which is in-turn
transmitted to the trainee and viewed in surgical console as guidance. We
comprehensively validate the system on both real surgery stereo videos and
ex-vivo scenarios of common robotic training tasks (i.e., peg-transfer and
suturing). Promising results are demonstrated regarding the fidelity of
streamed scene visualization, the accuracy of feedback with hand interaction,
and the low-latency of each component in the entire remote mentoring system.
This work showcases the feasibility of leveraging AR technology for reliable,
flexible and low-cost solutions to robotic surgical education, and holds great
potential for clinical applications.