Next-generation distributed computing networks (e.g., edge and fog computing)
enable the efficient delivery of delay-sensitive, compute-intensive
applications by facilitating access to computation resources in close proximity
to end users. Many of these applications (e.g., augmented/virtual reality) are
also data-intensive: in addition to user-specific (live) data streams, they
require access to (static) digital objects (e.g., image database) to complete
the required processing tasks. When required objects are not available at the
servers hosting the associated service functions, they must be fetched from
other edge locations, incurring additional communication cost and latency. In
such settings, overall service delivery performance shall benefit from jointly
optimized decisions around (i) routing paths and processing locations for live
data streams, together with (ii) cache selection and distribution paths for
associated digital objects. In this paper, we address the problem of dynamic
control of data-intensive services over edge cloud networks. We characterize
the network stability region and design the first throughput-optimal control
policy that coordinates processing and routing decisions for both live and
static data-streams. Numerical results demonstrate the superior performance
(e.g., throughput, delay, and resource consumption) obtained via the novel
multi-pipeline flow control mechanism of the proposed policy, compared with
state-of-the-art algorithms that lack integrated stream processing and data
distribution control.