Learning models are highly dependent on data to work effectively, and they
give a better performance upon training on big datasets. Massive research
exists in the literature to address the dataset adequacy issue. One promising
approach for solving dataset adequacy issues is the data augmentation (DA)
approach. In DA, the amount of training data instances is increased by making
different transformations on the available data instances to generate new
correct and representative data instances. DA increases the dataset size and
its variability, which enhances the model performance and its prediction
accuracy. DA also solves the class imbalance problem in the classification
learning techniques. Few studies have recently considered DA in the Arabic
language. These studies rely on traditional augmentation approaches, such as
paraphrasing by using rules or noising-based techniques. In this paper, we
propose a new Arabic DA method that employs the recent powerful modeling
technique, namely the AraGPT-2, for the augmentation process. The generated
sentences are evaluated in terms of context, semantics, diversity, and novelty
using the Euclidean, cosine, Jaccard, and BLEU distances. Finally, the AraBERT
transformer is used on sentiment classification tasks to evaluate the
classification performance of the augmented Arabic dataset. The experiments
were conducted on four sentiment Arabic datasets, namely AraSarcasm, ASTD, ATT,
and MOVIE. The selected datasets vary in size, label number, and unbalanced
classes. The results show that the proposed methodology enhanced the Arabic
sentiment text classification on all datasets with an increase in F1 score by
4% in AraSarcasm, 6% in ASTD, 9% in ATT, and 13% in MOVIE.