The meaningful use of electronic health records (EHR) continues to progress
in the digital era with clinical decision support systems augmented by
artificial intelligence. A priority in improving provider experience is to
overcome information overload and reduce the cognitive burden so fewer medical
errors and cognitive biases are introduced during patient care. One major type
of medical error is diagnostic error due to systematic or predictable errors in
judgment that rely on heuristics. The potential for clinical natural language
processing (cNLP) to model diagnostic reasoning in humans with forward
reasoning from data to diagnosis and potentially reduce the cognitive burden
and medical error has not been investigated. Existing tasks to advance the
science in cNLP have largely focused on information extraction and named entity
recognition through classification tasks. We introduce a novel suite of tasks
coined as Diagnostic Reasoning Benchmarks, DR.BENCH, as a new benchmark for
developing and evaluating cNLP models with clinical diagnostic reasoning
ability. The suite includes six tasks from ten publicly available datasets
addressing clinical text understanding, medical knowledge reasoning, and
diagnosis generation. DR.BENCH is the first clinical suite of tasks designed to
be a natural language generation framework to evaluate pre-trained language
models. Experiments with state-of-the-art pre-trained generative language
models using large general domain models and models that were continually
trained on a medical corpus demonstrate opportunities for improvement when
evaluated in DR. BENCH. We share DR. BENCH as a publicly available GitLab
repository with a systematic approach to load and evaluate models for the cNLP
community.