Reconfigurable morphing surfaces provide new opportunities for advanced
human-machine interfaces and bio-inspired robotics. Morphing into arbitrary
surfaces on demand requires a device with a sufficiently large number of
actuators and an inverse control strategy that can calculate the actuator
stimulation necessary to achieve a target surface. The programmability of a
morphing surface can be improved by increasing the number of independent
actuators, but this increases the complexity of the control system. Thus,
developing compact and efficient control interfaces and control algorithms is a
crucial knowledge gap for the adoption of morphing surfaces in broad
applications. In this work, we describe a passively addressed robotic morphing
surface (PARMS) composed of matrix-arranged ionic actuators. To reduce the
complexity of the physical control interface, we introduce passive matrix
addressing. Matrix addressing allows the control of independent actuators using
only 2N control inputs, which is significantly lower than control inputs
required for traditional direct addressing. Our control algorithm is based on
machine learning using finite element simulations as the training data. This
machine learning approach allows both forward and inverse control with high
precision in real time. Inverse control demonstrations show that the PARMS can
dynamically morph into arbitrary pre-defined surfaces on demand. These
innovations in actuator matrix control may enable future implementation of
PARMS in wearables, haptics, and augmented reality/virtual reality (AR/VR).