We develop two fundamental stochastic sketching techniques; Penalty Sketching
(PS) and Augmented Lagrangian Sketching (ALS) for solving consistent linear
systems. The proposed PS and ALS techniques extend and generalize the scope of
Sketch & Project (SP) method by introducing Lagrangian penalty sketches. In
doing so, we recover SP methods as special cases and furthermore develop a
family of new stochastic iterative methods. By varying sketch parameters in the
proposed PS method, we recover novel stochastic methods such as Penalty Newton
Descent, Penalty Kaczmarz, Penalty Stochastic Descent, Penalty Coordinate
Descent, Penalty Gaussian Pursuit, and Penalty Block Kaczmarz. Furthermore, the
proposed ALS method synthesizes a wide variety of new stochastic methods such
as Augmented Newton Descent, Augmented Kaczmarz, Augmented Stochastic Descent,
Augmented Coordinate Descent, Augmented Gaussian Pursuit, and Augmented Block
Kaczmarz into one framework. Moreover, we show that the developed PS and ALS
frameworks can be used to reformulate the original linear system into
equivalent stochastic optimization problems namely the Penalty Stochastic
Reformulation and Augmented Stochastic Reformulation. We prove global
convergence rates for the PS and ALS methods as well as sub-linear
$\mathcal{O}(\frac{1}{k})$ rates for the Cesaro average of iterates. The
proposed convergence results hold for a wide family of distributions of random
matrices, which provides the opportunity of fine-tuning the randomness of the
method suitable for specific applications. Finally, we perform computational
experiments that demonstrate the efficiency of our methods compared to the
existing SP methods.