Low bone mineral density (BMD) is believed to influence the outcome of
instrumented spinal surgery and can lead to reoperation. Purpose of this
observational and case-control study was to investigate the association of BMD
with the risk of reoperation following instrumented lumbar spinal fusion (LSF).
For the observational study, 81 patients were included who received LSF with
and without augmentation. For the case-control study, 18 patients who had
reoperation following LSF were matched to 26 patients who did not have
reoperation (matched by sex, age +/- 5 years, fused levels and
PMMA-augmentation). Opportunistic BMD screening was performed in perioperative
CT scans using asynchronous calibration. Mean BMD was compared between patients
with and without reoperation in augmented and non-augmented surgeries. In the
observational study, prevalence of osteoporosis (BMD < 80 mg/cc) was 29% in
non-augmented and 85% in augmented LSF. Seven of 48 patients with non-augmented
(15%) and 4 of 33 patients with augmented LSF (12%) had reoperation. In
non-augmented LSF, patients with reoperation had significantly lower BMD than
patients without reoperation (P = 0.005). The best cut-off to predict
reoperation after non-augmented LSF was BMD < 83.7 mg/cc. In the case-control
study, patients with reoperation presented numerically lower BMD of 78.8 +/-
33.1 mg/cc than patients without reoperation with BMD of 89.4 +/- 39.7 mg/cc (P
= 0.357). Despite much lower BMD surgeries with PMMA-augmentation showed no
higher reoperation rate compared to non-augmented surgeries. Patients with
reoperation following LSF showed slightly lower BMD compared to matched
patients without reoperation, but the difference was not statistically
significant. Opportunistic BMD screening can be performed in preoperative CT,
thus informing about osteoporotic bone, a potential risk factor of surgery
failure.