Arbitrary-shaped text detection is a challenging task since curved texts in
the wild are of the complex geometric layouts. Existing mainstream methods
follow the instance segmentation pipeline to obtain the text regions. However,
arbitraryshaped texts are difficult to be depicted through one single
segmentation network because of the varying scales. In this paper, we propose a
two-stage segmentation-based detector, termed as NASK (Need A Second looK), for
arbitrary-shaped text detection. Compared to the traditional single-stage
segmentation network, our NASK conducts the detection in a coarse-to-fine
manner with the first stage segmentation spotting the rectangle text proposals
and the second one retrieving compact representations. Specifically, NASK is
composed of a Text Instance Segmentation (TIS) network (1st stage), a
Geometry-aware Text RoI Alignment (GeoAlign) module, and a Fiducial pOint
eXpression (FOX) module (2nd stage). Firstly, TIS extracts the augmented
features with a novel Group Spatial and Channel Attention (GSCA) module and
conducts instance segmentation to obtain rectangle proposals. Then, GeoAlign
converts these rectangles into the fixed size and encodes RoI-wise feature
representation. Finally, FOX disintegrates the text instance into serval
pivotal geometrical attributes to refine the detection results. Extensive
experimental results on three public benchmarks including Total-Text,
SCUTCTW1500, and ICDAR 2015 verify that our NASK outperforms recent
state-of-the-art methods.