Large-scale pretrained language models have shown thrilling generation
capabilities, especially when they generate consistent long text in thousands
of words with ease. However, users of these models can only control the prefix
of sentences or certain global aspects of generated text. It is challenging to
simultaneously achieve fine-grained controllability and preserve the
state-of-the-art unconditional text generation capability. In this paper, we
first propose a new task named "Outline to Story" (O2S) as a test bed for
fine-grained controllable generation of long text, which generates a
multi-paragraph story from cascaded events, i.e. a sequence of outline events
that guide subsequent paragraph generation. We then create dedicate datasets
for future benchmarks, built by state-of-the-art keyword extraction techniques.
Finally, we propose an extremely simple yet strong baseline method for the O2S
task, which fine tunes pre-trained language models on augmented sequences of
outline-story pairs with simple language modeling objective. Our method does
not introduce any new parameters or perform any architecture modification,
except several special tokens as delimiters to build augmented sequences.
Extensive experiments on various datasets demonstrate state-of-the-art
conditional story generation performance with our model, achieving better
fine-grained controllability and user flexibility. Our paper is among the first
ones by our knowledge to propose a model and to create datasets for the task of
"outline to story". Our work also instantiates research interest of
fine-grained controllable generation of open-domain long text, where
controlling inputs are represented by short text.