Virtual Reality (VR) has an increasing impact on the market in many fields,
from education and medicine to engineering and entertainment, by creating
different applications that replicate or in the case of augmentation enhance
real-life scenarios. Intending to present realistic environments, VR
applications are including text that we are surrounded by every day. However,
text can only add value to the virtual environment if it is designed and
created in such a way that users can comfortably read it. With the aim to
explore what values for text parameters users find comfortable while reading in
virtual reality, a study was conducted allowing participants to manipulate text
parameters such as font size, distance, and contrast. Therefore two different
standalone virtual reality devices were used, Oculus Go and Quest, together
with three different text samples: Short (2 words), medium (21 words), and long
(51 words). Participants had the task of setting text parameters to the best
and worst possible value. Additionally, participants were asked to rate their
experience of reading in virtual reality. Results report mean values for
angular size (the combination of distance and font size) and color contrast
depending on the different device used as well as the varying text length, for
both tasks. Significant differences were found for values of angular size,
depending on the length of the displayed text. However, different device types
had no significant influence on text parameters but on the experiences reported
using the self-assessment manikin (SAM) scale.