Text-based speech editing allows users to edit speech by intuitively cutting,
copying, and pasting text to speed up the process of editing speech. In the
previous work, CampNet (context-aware mask prediction network) is proposed to
realize text-based speech editing, significantly improving the quality of
edited speech. This paper aims at a new task: adding emotional effect to the
editing speech during the text-based speech editing to make the generated
speech more expressive. To achieve this task, we propose Emo-CampNet (emotion
CampNet), which can provide the option of emotional attributes for the
generated speech in text-based speech editing and has the one-shot ability to
edit unseen speakers' speech. Firstly, we propose an end-to-end
emotion-selectable text-based speech editing model. The key idea of the model
is to control the emotion of generated speech by introducing additional emotion
attributes based on the context-aware mask prediction network. Secondly, to
prevent the emotion of the generated speech from being interfered by the
emotional components in the original speech, a neutral content generator is
proposed to remove the emotion from the original speech, which is optimized by
the generative adversarial framework. Thirdly, two data augmentation methods
are proposed to enrich the emotional and pronunciation information in the
training set, which can enable the model to edit the unseen speaker's speech.
The experimental results that 1) Emo-CampNet can effectively control the
emotion of the generated speech in the process of text-based speech editing;
And can edit unseen speakers' speech. 2) Detailed ablation experiments further
prove the effectiveness of emotional selectivity and data augmentation methods.
The demo page is available at https://hairuo55.github.io/Emo-CampNet/