Drawing and annotating comic illustrations is a complex and difficult
process. No existing machine learning algorithms have been developed to create
comic illustrations based on descriptions of illustrations, or the dialogue in
comics. Moreover, it is not known if a generative adversarial network (GAN) can
generate original comics that correspond to the dialogue and/or descriptions.
GANs are successful in producing photo-realistic images, but this technology
does not necessarily translate to generation of flawless comics. What is more,
comic evaluation is a prominent challenge as common metrics such as Inception
Score will not perform comparably, as they are designed to work on photos. In
this paper: 1. We implement ComicGAN, a novel text-to-comic pipeline based on a
text-to-image GAN that synthesizes comics according to text descriptions. 2. We
describe an in-depth empirical study of the technical difficulties of comic
generation using GAN's. ComicGAN has two novel features: (i) text description
creation from labels via permutation and augmentation, and (ii) custom image
encoding with Convolutional Neural Networks. We extensively evaluate the
proposed ComicGAN in two scenarios, namely image generation from descriptions,
and image generation from dialogue. Our results on 1000 Dilbert comic panels
and 6000 descriptions show synthetic comic panels from text inputs resemble
original Dilbert panels. Novel methods for text description creation and custom
image encoding brought improvements to Frechet Inception Distance, detail, and
overall image quality over baseline algorithms. Generating illustrations from
descriptions provided clear comics including characters and colours that were
specified in the descriptions.