We introduce an evolutionary algorithm called recombinator-$k$-means for
optimizing the highly non-convex kmeans problem. Its defining feature is that
its crossover step involves all the members of the current generation,
stochastically recombining them with a repurposed variant of the $k$-means++
seeding algorithm. The recombination also uses a reweighting mechanism that
realizes a progressively sharper stochastic selection policy and ensures that
the population eventually coalesces into a single solution. We compare this
scheme with state-of-the-art alternative, a more standard genetic algorithm
with deterministic pairwise-nearest-neighbor crossover and an elitist selection
policy, of which we also provide an augmented and efficient implementation.
Extensive tests on large and challenging datasets (both synthetic and
real-word) show that for fixed population sizes recombinator-$k$-means is
generally superior in terms of the optimization objective, at the cost of a
more expensive crossover step. When adjusting the population sizes of the two
algorithms to match their running times, we find that for short times the
(augmented) pairwise-nearest-neighbor method is always superior, while at
longer times recombinator-$k$-means will match it and, on the most difficult
examples, take over. We conclude that the reweighted whole-population
recombination is more costly, but generally better at escaping local minima.
Moreover, it is algorithmically simpler and more general (it could be applied
even to $k$-medians or $k$-medoids, for example). Our implementations are
publicly available at
\href{https://github.com/carlobaldassi/RecombinatorKMeans.jl}{https://github.com/carlobaldassi/RecombinatorKMeans.jl}.