Objective: Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) influence personal health
outcomes and health systems interactions. Health systems capture SDOH
information through structured data and unstructured clinical notes; however,
clinical notes often contain a more comprehensive representation of several key
SDOH. The objective of this work is to assess the SDOH information gain
achievable by extracting structured semantic representations of SDOH from the
clinical narrative and combining these extracted representations with available
structured data.
  Materials and Methods: We developed a natural language processing (NLP)
information extraction model for SDOH that utilizes a deep learning entity and
relation extraction architecture. In an electronic health record (EHR) case
study, we applied the SDOH extractor to a large existing clinical data set with
over 200,000 patients and 400,000 notes and compared the extracted information
with available structured data.
  Results: The SDOH extractor achieved 0.86 F1 on a withheld test set. In the
EHR case study, we found 19\% of current tobacco users, 10\% of drug users, and
32\% of homeless patients only include documentation of these risk factors in
the clinical narrative.
  Conclusions: Patients who are at-risk for negative health outcomes due to
SDOH may be better served if health systems are able to identify SDOH risk
factors and associated social needs. Structured semantic representations of
text-encoded SDOH information can augment existing structured, and this more
comprehensive SDOH representation can assist health systems in identifying and
addressing social needs.