Structured tabular data exist across nearly all fields. Reasoning task over
these data aims to answer questions or determine the truthiness of hypothesis
sentences by understanding the semantic meaning of a table. While previous
works have devoted significant efforts to the tabular reasoning task, they
always assume there are sufficient labeled data. However, constructing
reasoning samples over tables (and related text) is labor-intensive, especially
when the reasoning process is complex. When labeled data is insufficient, the
performance of models will suffer an unendurable decline. In this paper, we
propose a unified framework for unsupervised complex tabular reasoning (UCTR),
which generates sufficient and diverse synthetic data with complex logic for
tabular reasoning tasks, assuming no human-annotated data at all. We first
utilize a random sampling strategy to collect diverse programs of different
types and execute them on tables based on a "Program-Executor" module. To
bridge the gap between the programs and natural language sentences, we design a
powerful "NL-Generator" module to generate natural language sentences with
complex logic from these programs. Since a table often occurs with its
surrounding texts, we further propose novel "Table-to-Text" and "Text-to-Table"
operators to handle joint table-text reasoning scenarios. This way, we can
adequately exploit the unlabeled table resources to obtain a well-performed
reasoning model under an unsupervised setting. Our experiments cover different
tasks (question answering and fact verification) and different domains (general
and specific), showing that our unsupervised methods can achieve at most 93%
performance compared to supervised models. We also find that it can
substantially boost the supervised performance in low-resourced domains as a
data augmentation technique. Our code is available at
https://github.com/leezythu/UCTR.